hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions a Chinese
university entrance exam maths question
leaves us teacher stumped that's
according to the South China Morning
Post a u.s. teacher tried to solve a
problem from this year's gal cow a
Chinese college entrance exam known for
its difficulty to quote from the article
post about the video have been viewed a
hundred and forty million times on the
micro-blogging site Wei Bois and the
video has been picked up by other
Chinese news media I was very interested
in this problem but there was an issue
the problem was written in Chinese and
at first I could not find an English
translation I posted the problem to
Twitter and I owe a huge thanks to two
people who kindly translated the problem
for me so that I could share it to you
in this video by the way you can also
follow me on twitter at presto Walker so
here's the problem the domain of f of X
is all real numbers and satisfies f of X
plus 1 is equal to 2 times f of X for X
in the interval 0 to 1 not including 0
but including 1 f of X is equal to x
times the quantity X minus 1 for values
where X goes from negative infinity to M
inclusive f of X is greater than or
equal to negative 8 over 9 what is the
value of M is it 9 fourths 7 over 3 5
over 2 or 8 over 3 pause the video if
you'd like to give it a try and when
you're ready keep watching to learn how
to solve this problem
[Music]
so this is a very intimidating problem
let's break it down step by step and get
a real understanding of what the
question is asking so we'll start out
with the most concrete information for X
in the interval 0 to 1 not including 0
but including 1 f of X is equal to x
times the quantity X minus 1 let's make
a plot of this function will go from 0
to 1 and let's graph what this function
will look like well x times the quantity
X minus 1 will be a parabola and it's
going to go between the points 0 0 and 1
0 now technically 0 is not included in
this interval but essentially the graph
is going to go from 0 0 to 1 0 and we're
just going to get a sketch of what this
graph looks like so that we can get a
better understanding of the question now
the minimum value of this parabola is
going to be right in the middle and it's
going to be an F of 0.5 which is equal
to negative 0.25 so let's just sketch
what this function looks like I'm also
going to put the function right here so
that we can keep track of the function
as we graph the other intervals now
let's try and graph this function in
other intervals we know that f of X plus
1 is equal to 2 times f of X now we can
evaluate a couple of points and we're
quickly going to deduce that the graph
in the next interval 1 to 2 will be
twice the height of the graph in 0 to 1
we're going to shift over this parabola
and we're going to multiply it by 2 so
this graph is going to look something
like this and this is because of the
property that f of X plus 1 is equal to
2 times f of X now when we shift a
function over the variable X is going to
be back to X minus 1 so this parabola is
going to have a graph of 2 because it's
twice as tall and descri multiplied by
the quantity X minus 1 multiplied by the
quantity x - 2 so let's continue
graphing this in the next interval it's
going to be twice the height of the
graph in the interval from 1 to 2 and
shift it over so it's going to look
something like this
so this parabola will have an equation 4
times the quantity X minus 2 times the
quantity X minus 3 we can also shift
this graph to the left it's going to be
half diet so in this interval negative 1
to 0 it's going to be half the height
and in this interval negative 2 to
negative 1 it's going to be half the
height and the pattern continues so
looking at this graph we want f of X to
be greater than or equal to negative 8
over 9 so let's put negative 8 over 9 as
a line in this graph
let's do y is equal to negative 8 over 9
now you'll see in the third interval
from 2 to 3 it's going to intersect so
at some point f of X is going to be less
than negative 8 over 9 and we want to
look for the points where f of X is
greater than or equal to negative 8 over
9 so we're looking for this value M in
which f of X is always greater than or
equal to negative 8 over 9 we want to
solve where this parabola quai ssin is
equal to negative 8 over 9 and we solve
for the smallest value so let's go ahead
and solve this algebra problem but
there's a little trick you might
actually guess some of the factors
notice that 4 times 1/3 times negative
2/3 is equal to negative 8 over 9 and 4
times 2/3 times negative 1/3 is also
equal to negative 8 over 9 you can
quickly see the first equation X would
be equal to 7/3 and the second equation
X is equal to 8 over 3 we want the
smallest x value so we just take X is
equal to 7 over 3 but if you didn't see
that trick you can go ahead and solve it
like you would solve a standard
quadratic equation we go ahead and
factor we end up with two results and we
want the smallest x value so now f of X
will be greater than or equal to
negative 8 over 9 if X is less than or
equal to 7 over 3 so going back to the
question we want to know what is the
value of m and in our answer choices
it's going to be answer choice B 7 over
3 and that's the answer to this very
challenging problem and it took me quite
a while to solve too but I think it's a
pretty interesting problem
thanks for watching and for making mind
your decisions one of the best channels
on YouTube thanks for watching and
thanks for your support
[Music]